# Agent Functions
Agents perceive something is a precise point in time, then they act. 
This happens at a different time
The controller must specify a command at any time

**given T being a  line indicating all the time steps**

A **percept trace** is a function from $T$ to $P$ where $P$ is the set of all possible percepts
A **command trace** is a function form $T$ to $C$ where $C$ is the set of all possible commands
A **transduction** is a function fromm the set of all the **percept traces** to the set of all the **command traces**.
Given the definition of a transduction is not enough, a transduction must be **causal** .
A transduction is **causal** if, for all times $t$, the command at time $t$ depends only on percepts up to and including time $t$. The causality restriction is needed because agents are situated in time; their command at time $t$ cannot depend on percepts after time $t$.


A controller is a **transducer**: an implementation of a causal transduction.

The **history** of an agent at time $t$ is the percept trace for all time before and at time $t$ and the command trace before or at time $t$
So, the **causal transduction** specifies a function from the agent's history time at t to the command at time t. It can be seen as the most generalized specification of an agent.

An agent doesn't have acces to its entire history but onyl to that it is remembering/ it has saved.
Although a causal transduction is a fuction of an agent history, it cannot be directly implemented because an agent doesn't have access to its entire history.
So an agent acts based on the Environment and the history of all the previous percepts.

The **belief state** of an agent at time t is all the information the agent has stored of all the previous times. An agent only has access to its history that has been encoded in its belief state. Thus the belief state encapsulated all the information of history that the user can use for current and future commands.
At any time an agent has access to its belief state and percepts.

For discrete time, a controller implements:
(where $S$ is the set of belief states and $P$ is the set of possible percepts)
**belief state transition functions**:
$$remember:  S \times P \rightarrow S$$
$S_t{t+1} = remember(S_t, P_t)$ mean that $S_{t+1}$ is the belief state following $S_t$ when $P_t$ is observed

**command function**
$$do: S\times P \rightarrow C$$
$C_t = do(S_t , P_t )$  means that the controller issues the command $C_t$ when the belief state is $S_t$ and percepts $P_t$

The belief-state transition function and the command function together specify a causal transduction for the agent. Not that a causal transduction is a fucntion of the agent's history, which the agent doesn't necessarily have access to
but a command function is a function of the agent's belief state and percepts,  which it does have access to.

If there exists a finite number of possible belied states, the controller is called. a **finite state controller**. A **factored representation** is one in which the belief states, percepts, or commands are defined by [[features]]. If there exists a finite number of features and each feature can only have a finite number of possible values, then the controller is a **factored finite state machine**.
