the representation scheme dimensions concerns how the world is described.

The different ways the world could be to affect what an agent should do are called **states**. We can factor the state of the world into the agent's internal state (its belief state) and the environment state.

At the simplest level, an agent can reason explicitly in terms of individually identified states.

[[Example of the thermostat]]

Instead of enumerating states, it is often easier to reason in terms of the state's features or propositions that are true or false of the state. A state may be described in terms of [[features]], where a feature has a value in each state
A [[proposition]] is a Boolean feature which mean that its value is either true or false. Thirty positions can encode $$2^30$$ states. It may be easier to specify and reason with the thirty propositions that with more than a billion states. Moreover, having a compract representation of the states indicates understanding, because t mean theat an agent ahs captured some regularities in the domain.

When describing a complex world, the features can depend on relations and individuals. A relation on a single individual is a property. There is a feature for each possible relationship among the individuals.

Thus instead of dealing with features or propositions, it is often more convenient to have **relational descriptions** in terms of **individuals** and **relations** among them. For example, one binary relation and 100 individuals can represent $$100^2$$ propositions and $$2^10000$$ states. By reasoning in terms of relationships and individuals, an agent can specify reaso about whole classes of individuals without ever enumerating such features or propositions, let alone the states.

In the representatoin scheme dimension, the agent reasons in terms of
- states
- features
- relational descriptions, in terms of individuals and relations.
